0  Q: What's the best-case, worst-case, and average-case time complexities of quicksort.
   Briefly explain each case. (Quick sort)

   Best-Case:   Assuming that a list of size 'n' is given as an input to the function qsort.
                We then select the pivot element randomly from the elements in the list and
                divide the list into 2 subsets, the subset which is left to the pivot element
                contains all the elements in the list which are less than pivot and the right
                subset contains all the elements which are greater than the pivot element.
                The Function qsort is called on the both the subsets recursively. As the pivot
                element is chosen randomly each time the function has called the chances of
                getting empty list in left or right is pretty low. If we use tree analysis to
                calculate the time complexity the length of the tree will be log(n) and as all
                the elements will be checked once at all level the final time complexity(Best-case)
                for quick sort will be O(nlog(n))

  Worst-Case:   Assuming that a list of size 'n' is given as an input to the function qsort.
                We then select the pivot element to be the smallest or largest element in the
                list and divide the list into 2 subsets, the subset which is left to the pivot
                element contains all the elements in the list which are less than pivot and the
                right subset contains all the elements which are greater than the pivot element.
                So, if we choose the pivot in this format one partition will be empty and the other
                partition will be contain (n-1) elements.If we use tree analysis to
                calculate the time complexity and ignoring all the constants we get 'n' and as all
                the elements will be checked once at all level 'n' the final time complexity(Worst-case)
                for quick sort will be O(n^2)

  Average-Case: Assuming that we get 3n/4 elements on one side and n/4 elements on other side everytime
                we do partition. If we use tree analysis the length of the tree for both cases will be
                log(n) after ignoring the constants. And, as all the elements will be checked once at
                all level 'n' the final time complexity(Average-case) for quick sort will be O(nlog(n))

  1  Q: What's the best-case, worst-case, and average-case time complexities? Briefly
     explain.(Quick select)

      Best-Case:  The best case time complexity for quick select is O(n)
                  We take the a randomized pivot and partition the elements in the list to left and right
                  where left side has all the elements which are lesser than pivot and right has all the
                  elements which are greater than the pivot. Everytime we just scan through either the left or right
                  depending the pivot and the element position we want to retrieve which reduces the inut to n/2 and
                  then the next call has n/4 and then n/8..till it becomes 1.If we solve that and ignore
                  constants we get 'n'. The final time complexity(Best-case)for quick selection will be O(n)

      Worst-case: The worst case time complexity for quick select is o(n^2)
                  Suppose we take the pivot element as the largest element or smallest element in that case one side
                  will be empty and the other side has n-1 elements. Each time the fuction is called recursively the
                  inputs will be n-2,n-3.......1 respectively.If we solve that and ignore
                  constants we get 'n^2'. The final time complexity(Worst-case)for quick selection will be O(n^2)

    Average-case: The best case time complexity for quick select is O(n)
                  So if we take the average of Best-case and worst case inputs((n-1)+n/2))/2 ignoring the starting n inputs
                  we get 3/4n and the second function call  we pass (3/4n)^2 till it becomes one. If we solve that and ignore
                  constants we get 'n'. The final time complexity(Average-case)for quick selection will be O(n)

 2  Q: What are the time complexities for the operations implemented?
    i) Sorted(t): Buggy quicksort is similar to binary search tree as it gives the output in the same fashion. So,even the
       time complexity is same.In this function each element is visited 3 time giving the time complexity 3c * n and after
       ignoring the constants the final time complexity(Worst-case) will be O(n)
   ii) search(t, x): In search function half of the list gets skipped everytime,so the search function runs for a maximum of
       (log(n) to the base 2) time.Thus the time complexity(worst-case) will be O(log(n))
  iii) Insert(t, x): This function works almost as same as the search function it will search for the correct position and
       insert the given element with two empty nodes. Thus the time complexity(worst-case) will be O(log(n))

  Debriefing (required!): --------------------------

     1. Approximately how many hours did you spend on this assignment?
        Around 8 hours.

     2. Would you rate it as easy, moderate, or difficult?
        Moderate to difficult

     3. Did you work on it mostly alone, or mostly with other people?
        75% alone and 25% with other people

     4. How deeply do you feel you understand the material it covers (0%–100%)?
        90%

     5. Any other comments?
        Nope.
